---
title: "obfuscation seminars"
slug: "12999"
pubDate: 2006-06-21T06:48:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:49.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i just got an email from preemptive about obfuscatin seminars coming up &mdash; might be interesting to check out and learn more about how they do/recommend it.&nbsp; i&rsquo;m sure in part it will be a commercial for their products, but they do have good ones (and the community edition is included in visual studio)</p>
<p>here&rsquo;s the details &mdash; i&rsquo;m sure the links were for my email address response, so if you register it will likely throw off their campaign marketing counts, but oh well&hellip;</p>
<blockquote>
<p>The next series of webinars from PreEmptive Solutions will focus exclusively on best practices for developers. In the first part of the year, we focused on describing the functional components of obfuscation, the role of obfuscation in risk management and selection criteria for an enterprise obfuscation solution. Over the next three months, we will present specific tips, techniques and competencies that developers can leverage to protect their code, simplify their development process and improve the quality of their work. </p>
<p><a href="http://cl.exct.net/?ffcb10-fe55137373610679721c-fdfb16777065007d74137676-ff2a16757263">Best Practices of Obfuscation Part 1- Optimal Configuration and Use</a><br />When: June 26th 1:00-1:30 PM EST <br />Presented by Gabriel Torok: President of PreEmptive Solutions<br />Participants will develop an understanding of the best practices in applying fine-grained obfuscation to maximize obfuscation value and simplifying the configuration and the build process and IDE integration to further simplify, standardize and streamline development.&nbsp; Topics covered will include: Using Declarative obfuscation, Strong naming an obfuscated assembly, Dealing with Reflection, Configuring and using Incremental Obfuscation, Integrating Dotfuscator into your build process, and others.<br /><br /><a href="http://cl.exct.net/?ffcb10-fe55137373610679721c-fdfb16777065007d74137676-ff2a16757263">Best Practices of Obfuscation Part 2-Competencies Needed Before Adding Obfuscation to Your Build Cycle</a><br />When: July 24th 1:00-1:30 PM EST <br />Presented by Jason Haley, independent consultant/analyst and author of the soon to be published white paper, Obfuscation best practices for developers.<br />Obfuscation and the impact of distributing obfuscated code can impact virtually every stage of an application's lifecycle.&nbsp; If your organization needs to maximize protection and minimize the level of effort and complexity,&nbsp; this session will articulate the competencies required to effectively integrate obfuscation into a development lifecycle. </p>
<p><a href="http://cl.exct.net/?ffcb10-fe55137373610679721c-fdfb16777065007d74137676-ff2a16757263">Best Practices of Obfuscation Part 3- Gotchas for Developers Obfuscating .NET Assemblies</a><br />When: August 21st 1:00-1:30 PM EST <br />Presented by Jason Haley, independent consultant/analyst and author of the soon to be published white paper, Obfuscation best practices for developers.<br />There are always surprises in every development project, obfuscation does not need to be one of them. Participants will drill down into the most common issues that .NET developers face when obfuscating assemblies and the options available to manage them.</p>
<p>Register for all three - we hope you can join us! </p>
<p>Regards,</p>
<p>Sebastian Holst<br />SVP Sales &amp; Marketing<br />To register please <a href="http://cl.exct.net/?ffcb10-fe55137373610679721c-fdfb16777065007d74137676-ff2a16757263">start here</a><br /></p></blockquote>
