---
title: "visual studio eye for the dba guy"
slug: "13255"
pubDate: 2006-08-09T20:27:06.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:51.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>okay, i'm slightly ashamed to admit it, but today i finally saw the visual studio team edition for database professionals in action.  vsts expert rich <a title="Richard Hundhausen" href="http://www.hundhausen.com" target="_blank">Hundhausen</a> was demoing to a customer and i wanted to tag along to see this new feature set available to the team system family.</p> <p>after 40 minutes of seeing some of the simple features all i could say was: cool.</p> <p>seriously.  it was so simplistic, yet so necessary and needed for the db developer world.  here's a run-down of some of the features i saw today:</p> <ul> <li>creating db schemas by reverse engineering</li> <li>diff'ing schemas to other projects *and* other databases (note: you can do this without having to setup a project, reverese engineer anything etc)</li> <li>schema compares</li> <li>build and deploy implementations with msbuild</li> <li>data generation plans -- this was cool, a true data gen built into the product (which can be a part of a build plan as well to always start with a consistent state) -- can use static info, or retrieve data from a database, or you can set parameters, regex, etc., etc.</li> <li>unit testing of db scripts (pre, test, post scripts)</li> <li>source control integration with the vsts policies, etc.</li></ul> <p>it seriously put a little geeky grin on my face.  i got back to the office and downloaded it immediately (you can <a href="http://download.microsoft.com/download/6/8/1/681f2f35-365c-4b47-a1ac-044f9801efb0/TeamDataCTP4.exe">get ctp4 from here</a>).  i'd encourage you to take a look and play around with it.</p> <p>and as we know, the easiest way to learn is to teach.  i'm giving a demo at the next sql server user group meeting in my area!</p> <p></p>
