---
title: "antivirus and bloatware"
slug: "13591"
pubDate: 2006-10-08T11:02:56.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:54.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i'm not a fan of bloatware...i don't think anyone is.  when you install something, you expect it to be exactly what you want.  aol recently got nailed for having their latest software install a bunch of other software without the user's knowledge.</p> <p>two chronic violators i think for bloatware: acrobat reader and quicktime.  acrobat reader: to me that means a reader.  so why is it 20MB?  compare to <a href="http://www.foxitsoftware.com" rel="tag">foxit reader</a> which is 3.7MB (which is about 2MB more than the previous version even) and does the same thing (reads PDFs, search, etc.).  yeah, yeah, acrobat reader can do a few other things, but enough to warrant 6x the size and how many people really use (or even know about those features).  quicktime? don't even get me started.  a "plugin" that installs a startup task, system tray icon, etc.</p> <p>while doing a recent installfest for vista, we were talking about antivirus solutions.  <a href="http://home3.ca.com/microsoft/">etrust provides free licenses for microsoft users</a>, but vista recommended trend micro pc-cilling for vista.  etrust: 7MB; pc-cilling: 80MB.  wow, what's with the huge delta in difference?  it was interesting to note that.  avg free edition: 14MB.  it's just curious that there is such a wide variety of sizes in vendors when to the average consumer "they do the same thing"</p> <p>anyhow, just an observation.  as a developer, i know there are many things that could contribute to ending size, but when i look at the features of foxit reader vs. acrobat reader -- that one baffles me.</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:43879e48-8afb-44ac-a744-bce3369aeba5" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
