---
title: "tivo and cox aren't friends"
slug: "13715"
pubDate: 2006-10-18T18:56:38.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:55.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>well, <a href="http://timheuer.com/blog/archive/2006/08/06/13251.aspx">back in august i knew things weren't going to be smooth</a> with the cox buyout of cableamerica (my local provider).  i already cancelled my internet service because, well frankly, cox internet sucks (at least in my area).  qwest dsl has proved to be a better choice so far (crossing my fingers for verizon fios).</p> <p>well 5 days ago i got a note in the mail about having to turn in my dvr/cable box.  it was not something i was looking forward to, but i planned for it -- they let me know that on oct 18 the box would be rendered useless.</p> <p>i unplugged it and took it down -- little did i know it was a sales process...'do you have internet?' -- yada yada -- give me my new box.  i got it and went home.  the user interface sucks.  it's like the cableamerica ui on the motorola was a slick wicked xbox/wpf/mediacenter looking thing...cox ui? atari.  the process of creating a series recording sucks arse.</p> <p>anyhow, i used it.  until today.  october 18.  channels abruptly changed.  on the cox box, fine.  on my tivo units, not so fine.  no problem, rerun the setup...it found cox as a new provider...but then started asking me about the channel lineup -- and it didn't match.  now i have a dvr service (in 2 rooms) that is useless if the channel lineup doesn't match.</p> <p>contact cox: not our problem (their probably right); contact tivo: 3-5 days for an answer.</p> <p>argh.</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:10d67ae2-4ce4-49e7-a6e2-4c38ae05d8bd" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
