---
title: "thanksgiving, carnivores and my weekend with zune"
slug: "13927"
pubDate: 2006-11-27T15:45:12.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:56.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>this past weekend was the american 'thanksgiving' holiday.  as is tradition with most, i too ate turkey for the holiday.  this one was different for us.  we decided to escape the normal family gatherings and stress of making food, cleaning, and having kids in non-kid friendly homes.  we took off for san diego, california on a whim.  i hate driving.  anything &gt; 3 hrs sucks.  but i had my wife with me and we were able to finally talk about a lot of things -- something our normal daily lives don't seem to allow us to do.  it was great times the whole way there.</p> <p>for thanksgiving day, we bellied up at a restaurant and had them cook/clean for us.  it was awesome.  the food wasn't half bad either.  the next morning it got me thinking about what i eat.  i'm a carnivore.  as i sat and ate unborn chickens (eggs) and the fat of a pig (bacon) it really made me think how savage we are.  survival of the fittest i guess.  i wondered if i should stop eating meat (or less of it) once i pondered what i was doing.  nah, tastes too good.  i used to be a vegetarian...actually a vegan.  i lost a LOT of weight, but also lost energy, etc.  needless to say that was in the younger years and i'm not anymore (and gained a lot of weight since :-)).</p> <p>i traveled this weekend with my trusty zune in hand.  before i left i acquired a travel kit from a local store.  it came with the premium earbuds.  um, awesome.  now i'm not an audiophile, can't tell the difference between 192kbps and 320kbps in music quality (if those are even the correct terms), but compared to the inlcuded earphones with the zune and the ipod earbuds (which i'd been using), these kicked some major arse!  they fit great, look good, and sound incredible.  when i have them in i can't even hear anything but the music -- which is awesome (except if you are driving).  i also got the car kit (fm transmitter) -- needless to say, that will be going back to the store today.</p> <p>i burned a few dvds <a href="http://timheuer.com/blog/archive/2006/11/21/13923.aspx">using the tools i'm investigating</a>.  i never thought i'd be 'that guy' with videos on a portable device.  but i am.  it is so cool and convenient.  i apologize to all the video ipod people i mocked ;-).  my daughter loved them too -- i'm going to put some kid movies on there -- much easier for her to hold than the 9" portable dvd player we currently use.  my experience with zune as a traveling device was fantastic.  it really is growing on me and making me forget the size and convenience of my ipod mini.  battery life was good as well -- two movies watched (2 hrs each) on a single battery with some left over juice.</p> <p>i also mowed the lawn with the zune (well, not *with* the zune, but you get the picture) and couldn't even hear the lawnmower thanks to my new earbuds.  they didn't fall out either when i was doing the yard (a common occurrence with the ipod buds).  kudos!  viva le earbuds!</p> <p>when i plugged my zune in yesterday there was already a firmware update.  cool, tells me microsoft found some issues maybe and fixed them right away -- no new features i could tell, but hopefully those will come.  oh yeah, and found <a href="http://phaleux.com/?p=8">this hack to make your zune a mass storage device</a>.  cheers.</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:17707395-d88e-4b2e-85b6-9398b7c2463e" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
