---
title: "how to know your wife has assimilated -- and no driving for gifts"
slug: "13930"
pubDate: 2006-12-02T10:35:04.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:56.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i have the tri-fecta of gifting for december: wife b-day, anniversary (10 years this year!), and the holidays.  yikes.  needless to say, we go broke in december.</p> <p>i love my wife.  i really do a lot -- but i love it even more when she makes things easy for a neanderthal like me.  if you haven't figured it out yet (unless you're <strong>really</strong> astute in your relationship), shopping for women is hard.  it exponentially increases in difficulty when clothes are thrown into the mix.  this year my wife <strong>detailed</strong> a list of things she wants/needs for the tri-fecta holiday season.</p> <p>so how do i know my wife is assimilated?  (into technology at least.)  well, first she <strong>emailed me</strong> the list.  one word: sweet.  she knows i suck at life multi-tasking and that i spend most of an average day in an inbox of some sort.  boom, gift list: flagged.  okay second reason i know...here's the first line:</p> <blockquote> <p>Victoria's Secret -- any of the following:</p> <p>item &lt;blah blah&gt; size &lt;blah blah&gt; -- you can enter "slipper" in the promo code to get free slippers</p></blockquote> <p>note: blahs added by me to protect her desires :-)</p> <p>that was the first item -- no where did it mention go online or the website...nice -- she's finally got into my head -- i almost cried when i saw "you can enter the promo code" -- sweet bliss to see that "promo code" is now a part of her vernacular.</p> <p>anyhow, last night i had a free moment to acquire some of the items from the 2 page aforementioned email (yeah, not kidding).  so i hopped in the car and took off.  then i suddenly realized...why am i driving anywhere?  first, my brakes are going out (on top of a flat tire this week as well) and i don't really live close to anything.</p> <p>u-turn.  back home.  hop on computer.  i purchased everything she wanted (from what i decided was appropriate ;-)) from the comfort of my own home.  <em>what about shipping?</em> well, most online retailers are offering free shipping during the holidays so that was okay.  sure there were a few items that i didn't, but i'll get those during regular errands.</p> <p>it was awesome.  i remember a colleague the other day asking about how much i buy online.  almost exclusively now.  really.  if it is a product in a retail (excluding food), i seek it out first online (and actually at ebay first -- a lot of retailers are using that as a channel for their 'real' goods), then determine the value of getting it online versus if i can get it on a normal errand run.  most of the time online wins.  i haven't tried out groceries, but i'm willing too...</p> <p>anyhow, happy shopping!</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:3f6075c8-78ea-4d1e-a634-eb0111448136" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
