---
title: "video services: aol and service announcements"
slug: "13955"
pubDate: 2007-01-02T17:04:35.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:58.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i'm sure you've been seeing these television advertisements all over for aol's new video service.  they really have been pushing it a lot.  the ad features ed bundy (c'mon let's be real you don't know his name either) in a public service like announcement...talking about how all this video on the internet goes unwatched each year.  personally i think the approach is a bit tacky (a bit of a mockery for the charity foundations), but maybe that's because i first saw it while watching 'United 93' which was commercial free sponsored by AOL -- i just thought they might have thought of a better topic to display psa-like advertisements than the united movie.</p> <p>all that aside, i couldn't escape the ads, so today i went for a look.  now i've used google video once, but rarely went back.  since then <a href="http://www.youtube.com/" rel="tag">youtube</a> has been my source for internet video (as i'm sure yours).  <a href="http://soapbox.msn.com/" rel="tag">soapbox</a> has been winning me over to distribute my own videos, but i think it will take time to get there from a pervasiveness thing.  i do think the quality of videos on <a href="http://soapbox.msn.com/" rel="tag">soapbox</a> is better (not the quality of the content, but the digital quality).  but all that being said, this was my current paradigm.</p> <p>so off to video.aol.com i go.  ugh.  horrible.  the ad gave me the impression that it was youtube-ish.  well kinda, but most of it seems to be centered around purchasable content.  and crappy (or to be fair -- not relevant to me) content at that.  here's this one with a title named "hidden camera reveals what buyers think" -- cool i thought i'd see some hidden cameras in some open houses with potential buyers talking crap about the home.  nope, a list of "sell your house" videos.  well the videos very well may have contained that content but at $1.99 per watch i wasn't going to find out.</p> <p>the layout is horrible for me, and "too much" especially in this era of web &lt;pick-your-version&gt;.0.  it amazes me that aol didn't take all the free research from youtube/google video/soapbox and implement the best product.  (much like i would have hoped microsoft took all the free research about ipod and made a better zune)  right now at best they are an aggregator -- even listing that their videos are coming from other places.  for me, it is unusable.  i'm sticking with youtube.</p> <p>the only video i found beneficial was <a href="http://us.video.aol.com/video.index.adp?pls=video.category.2555.1769145&amp;startid=1769145&amp;mode=1">this jay leno episode</a> (i would have embedded a player for you but didn't see that option).</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:d6711ff7-9316-4280-b5ee-be2fe337d9cb" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
