---
title: "where's kevin bacon when you need him?"
slug: "13969"
pubDate: 2007-01-27T14:17:50.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:58.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>okay, well technically, where's <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Footloose" rel="tag">ren mccormick</a> when you need him?  i live in a city called queen creek, arizona...which for most of the time had been a small farming community.  within the past 4 years it has boomed along with the real estate industry in the east side of the greater phoenix, arizona areas.  and now i feel it is a modern day footloose movie area!</p> <p>it's a great city, still has some small-town feel (which i like), and we have an awesome neighborhood.  still the town is experiencing growing pains.</p> <p>aside from the city growing pains, there is a pretty resistant neighborhood for certain typse of lifestyle, and apparently dancing is one of them :-).</p> <p>queen creek spans two counties, pinal and maricopa (maricopa is the largest county).  well, in the pinal side of things, there is a place called <a href="http://www.santanflat.com/" rel="tag">san tan flat</a>, which is a restaurant and outdoor entertainment area.  i must say that i despise country music...i just don't like it.  but *any* music live is great as it brings a level of excitement regardless of what you are doing.  san tan flat is also a good family place (aside from the smoking still allowed, which i'm not sure why as arizona just passed a no public smoking ordinance).  each table has its own fireplace and you can bring in your own s'mores fixings, etc.  a LOT of families frequent the place (they kick anyone &lt;21 out at 11pm).  a group of friends of ours go there sometimes as well to kick back, have fun and dance (well, i don't dance, that was in my pre-nup).</p> <p>well, it seems the city received some complaints and the residents are pulling out the dated laws to try to get rid of san tan flat.  as reported 12 news, <a href="http://www.azcentral.com/12news/news/articles/011707santanflat-CR.html">you can read the official complaint here</a> (link to the city complaint and a video about the story).  apparently they (pinal county) found a loophole in that dancing is only allowed in enclosed areas -- and san tan flat is an open area outside.</p> <p>it's re-friggin-diculous and really makes me think of footloose.  we went there last night and there were 'beware of the dance police' signs all over the place.  all we want to do is have a good time.  you can't hear anything from a neighboring area in my opinion as the flat is almost in the middle of nowhere -- and there isn't any traffic issues either ever since we've been going.</p> <p>someone has their undershorts on too tight and needs to get a grip on reality.  it's a fun place, it's fun entertainment...get a life pinal county!  i hope san tan flat can succeed in their quest...otherwise i'm calling ren!</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:86700fcb-00dc-4b45-a382-10f166bf5bf5" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
