---
title: "vonage: high pressure cancel"
slug: "13962"
pubDate: 2007-01-17T07:06:43.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:58.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i've been a vonage customer for about 2 years (28 months according to them).  all-in-all i was satisfied with the service.  sometimes the quality wasn't that great, but as a technical person i understand latency, etc.  however, vonage still doesn't pass the mother-in-law factor test from a quality and reliability standpoint...i think VOIP technology is there, but if you are relying on a 3rd party (ISP) for the connectivity, it can become troublesome.</p> <p>at any rate, as part of the new year, i've been just generally looking for ways to 1) cut recurring liabilities and 2) remove some hardware from the home office.  i decided vonage was something i didn't need anymore.  so i called to cancel.</p> <p>yikes.  i didn't think it would be that painful.</p> <blockquote> <p><strong>vonage</strong>: why are you wanting to cancel today<br /><strong>me</strong>: well, just trying to reduce some costs<br /><strong>vonage</strong>: you've been a member for so long, are you sure you want to cancel?<br /><strong>me</strong>: yes, thank you<br /><strong>vonage</strong>: can i talk to you about different rate plans<br /><strong>me</strong>: no, just want to cancel and eliminate a cost<br /><strong>vonage</strong>: would you consider reducing the rate plan to something more affordable?<br /><strong>me</strong>: nope, just want to cancel and <strong>eliminate</strong> a cost<br /><strong>vonage</strong>: so what phone will you be using then?<br /><strong>me</strong>: well, one of the 3 that are already in my home probably, i just want to cancel<br /><strong>vonage</strong>: why not use vonage as a backup?<br /><strong>me</strong>: because i just want to cancel.<br /><strong>vonage</strong>: have you considered asking a friend or family member about using your vonage account?<br /><strong>me</strong>: nope, just want to cancel<br /><strong>vonage</strong>: what about a co-worker<br /><strong>me</strong>: i'm not interested in reselling my contract, just want to cancel<br /><strong>vonage</strong>: okay, please hold for 2-3 minutes while i note your account<br /><strong>me</strong>: (thinking) 2-3 minutes [which it did take] to 'note' my account...yikes</p></blockquote> <p>it was really a painful cancel process that i hadn't experienced before in other cancellations i've done.  vonage cancelers beware!</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:b8f3ae1b-8e68-4de2-8e1a-5c93ba1501e1" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
