---
title: "go beyond vista"
slug: "13984"
pubDate: 2007-02-12T17:08:27.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:59.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i was in my local mac store (or is it apple store, i keep forgetting what the appropriate term is, i guess it is apple)...i was in my local <strong>apple</strong> store today and saw something funny.</p> <p>first, i wasn't buying a mac, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Outing_(Seinfeld_episode)">not that there is anything wrong with that</a>.  i was getting a slim case for my laptop for short trips (my bag has become cumbersome).  i like that the apple store stocks a lot of options, something other stores don't.</p> <p>anywhoo...upon checkout i noticed the current t-shirt for the store employees...i like how their ad campaigns blend into the store...very smart.  the shirt was black with a picture of an imac on the center (not very large).  underneath was simple type: "Go beyond Vista" is all it read.  (note: there was no marking about who the trademark of "Vista" belongs to -- maybe there's a lawsuit in there or something ;-) -- hey they've been using it a lot -- if microsoft used 'mac' i'm sure they'd get slammed for not disclosing the trademark owner).</p> <p>the register clerk quickly noted my shirt as i was wearing a microsoft office 2007 branded dress shirt.  he smiled.  it went something like this:</p> <p><strong>clerk</strong>: do you work for microsoft?<br /><strong>me:</strong> yep.<br /><strong>clerk:</strong> aren't you not allowed in here?<br /><strong>me:</strong> (chuckle), actually i have a mac at home...<br /><strong>clerk (puzzled):</strong> do <strong>they</strong> know that?<br /><strong>me:</strong> i'm not sure who <strong>they</strong> are, but i'm not ashamed of it...it manages my movies and pictures well.  i like your shirt<br /><strong>clerk:</strong> i bet you do, do you want one?<br /><strong>me (excited):</strong> yeah!  can i really have one?<br /><strong>clerk:</strong> no, i just wanted to see if you wanted one.<br /><strong>me (under breath):</strong> arse-hole</p> <p>it seems that apple is all over the place with this anti-vista campaign.  i think it is actually drawing more attention to vista.  they even <a href="http://www.famousagents.com/2007/02/03/apple-spam/">started spamming people</a> (and not getting favorable in their eyes) with the campaign.  i mean if OSX is so great, why not concentrate on those features rather than keep bringing up the fact that microsoft has a new operating system.  and prove the punchline...what is going beyond vista?  i mean <a href="http://www.musingsfrommars.org/2007/02/crystal-clear-preview.html">some people seem to like the see through toolbar effect and are starting to port to OSX</a>.</p> <p>i, too, am amused with the apple ads and think they have a great advertising agency.  i wish microsoft would hire them.  but their ads have simply resorted to a virtual name calling.  if it is so bad, show why...at least point me to some comparison, maybe: www.apple.com/getthefacts? :-)  regardless, they are funny.</p> <p>i guess apple must feel threatened if their are so aggressive about the anti-vista campaign...</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:875ed961-c2b3-4cdb-ba3d-9eff665df666" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
