---
title: "social hacking: no computer needed"
slug: "14013"
pubDate: 2007-03-15T18:20:14.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:00.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i've always seen stories of identity theft and virtual identity theft.  and i've not been a victim thankfully.  but in those stories (the ones that make the "big" news) there always seems to be a technical hacking going on to get more information, etc.  nothing really exposes as it should the social side of hacking.</p> <p>the <a href="http://news.com.com/HP+chairman+Use+of+pretexting+embarrassing/2100-1014_3-6113715.html?tag=nefd.lede">hp scandal</a> really started to do this and added "<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretext#Pretexting" rel="tag">pretexting</a>" became the latest favorite word of journalists.  kevin mitnick has said that this type of social hacking is the best weapon that everyone seems to forget about.</p> <p>well, the other day i was looking at one of my bills that i don't pay on their web site.  they had a teaser on their bill that said "you can now pay online go to our site blahblah.blah" so i did.  it asked me for my account number and a pin.  there was no "sign up" link or anything and i had no idea what my pin was since i hadn't done it before.  so i called them.</p> <p>it went something like this:</p> <blockquote> <p><strong>them</strong>: hello thank you for calling company blah, how can i help you<br /><strong>me</strong>: hi, how are you, i'm trying to use the new online billing feature but don't have a pin setup yet, and didn't see a sign up, can you send me one (<em>thinking that is how the banks do it to ensure the pin at least gets sent to the registered address</em>)<br /><strong>them</strong>: let me look that up for you, what is your account number<br /><strong>me</strong>: <em>flippity-flip-flip</em><br /><strong>them</strong>: okay, your pin is <em>skippidy-doo</em><br /><strong>me</strong>: thank you<br /><strong>them</strong>: your welcome, you are tim heuer right?</p></blockquote> <p>hmm, me thinks some verification should have happened BEFORE the essential pin was provided.  now what information was available, well nothing at this point because i hadn't used the service.  but what if i had and decided to store my cc information (which i never do by the way and wouldn't recommend anyone doing)?  when i hung up the phone i just sat there for a second and had the realization of how easy it is to be a victim.</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:7e74e8c9-dd2c-4179-b5d1-730f2ecfc287" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; float: none; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
