---
title: "microsoft technology summit 07"
slug: "14018"
pubDate: 2007-03-25T09:13:30.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:00.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i'm on my way to the microsoft technology summit for this year.  what is the summit?  basically it's a small group of invited guests traveling to the microsoft campus for some conversations.  another microsoft lovefest you say?  hardly...these invited guests aren't the typical microsoft flag wavers -- in fact i'd venture to guess some may not even have a msft flag :-)</p> <p>it's a chance to gather some influential people from varying technologies (PHP, Java, Ruby) and areas (academia, community, large enterprise) from around the world (united states, japan, malaysia, china, england).  it should be an interesting few days that wraps up on wednesday.  why redmond in the united states?  well, so we can gather some of the key technology leads from microsoft in one place to meet with this group of about 30 people.</p> <p>here's a list of who's planning on being there from microsoft:</p> <ul> <li>bill hilf or port25 and the open source labs</li> <li>jim hugunin of ironpython fame</li> <li>john lam of rubyclr fame</li> <li>kim cameron from our identity team</li> <li>don box -- does he need an explanation</li> <li>chris anderson -- if you haven't heard chris before, you are missing out on his knowledge</li> <li>michael howard about microsoft and security</li> <li>celso gomes - interactive designer at microsoft</li></ul> <p>it's a packed few days and i'm sure (hoping) that the attendees will write/blog/discuss their interactions -- this is NOT an NDA event for them.  i know i'll be reporting what is going on and hopefully have some video interviews up rather quickly as we get them.</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:ee7371cc-c729-41f4-bc43-8bd9cf7108f2" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
