---
title: "apple tv"
slug: "14022"
pubDate: 2007-03-28T21:15:58.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:01.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>first of all, what's up with dropping the "i" brand -- no iTV...was there a company that already had that too?</p> <p>i recently was contemplating something a friend did lately and it made me really look at the apple tv...he's not a dumb guy, so i had to look.  i'm unimpressed.  not just because i'm a microsoft guy (recall: i have a mac at home as my family's primary computer, my wife and i use ipods, and i want a macbook), but from a practical sense...allow me to just dump my thoughts:</p> <ul> <ul> <li>it's an extension to itunes only.  it isn't a standalone unit  </li><li>i remember watching the launch -- when steve jobs was trying to get people excited about it...my gut was "huh, no excitement...i've seen this stuff before .. it's called media center."  </li><li>the setup scenario -- per ben's comment below this may not be accurate -- i've seen reports and other friends tell me they had to do this step to get the pairing with a machine correct on a secure wireless network, but maybe it's isolated <strike>must be plugged in to a hard-wired connection before it can be configured. </strike> <ul> <li><strike>oh, and they don't include an ethernet cable -- sounds trivial, but an oversight in my opinion if the first step requires one</strike></li></ul> </li><li>parental controls? -- seem to be lacking  </li><li>purchase from apple tv -- nope  </li><li>browse library? -- nope, only "top"  </li><li>basically it's an extender only -- but i don't think it really is being presented as such</li></ul></ul> <p>i don't know, clearly i'm not the market for it -- but do people really buy content from itunes they want on their 60-inch tv?  they don't even sell quality video on itunes.  maybe i'm cynical, but it's kinda of redemption that apple has a crappy v1 product supported by crappy marketing for it.  for me, there is no story here.</p> <p>the *only* think i like what they did -- and in typical apple form they succeed -- is the physical nature of it.  media center is in "pc" form except those like <a href="http://www.vidabox.com/" rel="tag">vidabox.com</a>.  apple tv -- great form factor.  i can't help but really think it is just a smashed mini with front row on it.</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:24b59c5a-2244-45ce-b6e2-c270ca0c9021" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
