---
title: "powershell and counting lines of code"
slug: "14050"
pubDate: 2007-04-23T22:12:37.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:02.000Z
categories:
  - "david aiken"
  - "daiken"
  - "powershell"
  - "scripting"
  - "shell"
  - "command shell"
draft: false
---

<p>i know <a href="http://blogs.interfacett.com/spike-xavier/2007/2/6/powershell.html">some</a> <a href="http://www.hanselman.com/blog/">people</a> are super excited about powershell...to be frank, i simply haven't looked at enough to make any judgement.  i've sat through a few very high level overview sessions but not enough to get dirty with it.  well, while waiting to present a session with kirk at CA World this past weekend in vegas, i sat in on <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/daiken">david's</a> session about powershell.  </p><p>immediately upon sitting down i couldn't startup notepad fast enough to start taking notes.  even some of the simple things were very cool to see...here's some of the things i learned in the first 5 minutes...  </p><p>want to do a recursive directory listing grouping by file extensions?</p><pre class="csharpcode">dir -Recurse | group extension</pre>
<p>how about searching a directory for only c# files?</p><pre class="csharpcode">dir -Include *.cs -Recurse</pre>
<p>okay, what about counting the lines of code within those files?</p><pre class="csharpcode">(dir -Include *.cs -Recurse | select-string .).Count</pre>
<p>pretty cool i thought!  then i learned about aliasing features within the shell.  now you can create your own "vi" shortcut:</p><pre class="csharpcode">New-Alias vi notepad2.exe</pre>
<p>nice, now typing "vi" will give me my favorite text editor :-)</p>
<p>powershell even supports object creation and manipulation...something as simple as:</p><pre class="csharpcode">$speak = new-object -com <span class="str">"SAPI.SPVOICE"</span>
$speak.Speak(<span class="str">"Hello world"</span>)</pre>
<p>using this object creation you can easily script a lot of things relating to your web development setup, including the creation of sites, config files (manipulating config files), etc.</p>
<p>i learned a lot in those 5 minutes...amazing what you can learn when you get the time to sit down and listen!  enjoy powershell!</p>
<div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:df291d12-514e-411f-9770-e9a25a0649e3" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
