---
title: "traveling woes: zune triggers alarm as a hazardous device"
slug: "14088"
pubDate: 2007-05-17T17:52:22.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:03.000Z
categories:
  - "zune"
  - "tsa"
draft: false
---

<p>while traveling on my way to railsconf and the portland code camp, i headed to the airport (again).  from march-may i've redefined myself as a frequent traveler...mastering the security lines, figuring out what is and is not required, etc.</p> <p>as a part of code camp, i'm bringing a zune to give away.  i should note that when i travel i bring <strong>my</strong> zune with me in my backpack.  the zune i was also carrying was on a carry-on and was brand new (in the packaging, etc.).  well, going through the security line...my backpack...made it fine.  suitcase...stopped.  they needed to look.</p> <p>fine, no problem.  took me aside, opened the bag.  he proceeds to pick up the brand new zune packaging and opens it.  what?!  this is supposed to be a prize.  oh well, i guess you don't mess with the man...so he proceeds to break all the seals on the new packaging (sorry to whomever receives it).  he opens the zune and wipes the little handy wipe thing to scan for bomb residue, etc.  puts it in the machine...alarm.  loud noises.  weird.  a brand new zune made the hazardous material alarm trigger.  </p> <p>great.</p> <p>this leads to a full re-search of my body, my backpack, and then an unpacking of my entire suitcase.  as he is unpacking my backpack, i laugh at the irony as he is taking out <strong>my</strong> zune from my backpack and does nothing about it especially after a new one just alarmed.</p> <p>sigh, god bless america.</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:a139909f-f753-4ba6-b291-16e668809910" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
