---
title: "silverlight and safari on windows"
slug: "14119"
pubDate: 2007-06-11T16:14:43.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:05.000Z
categories:
  - "silverlight"
  - "safari"
draft: false
---

<p><strong>UPDATE</strong>: if it wasn't obvious i'll state it here...silverlight supports a specific matrix of browser and platforms (current released versions of Firefox/Safari on Mac; current released versions of Firefox/IE on Windows).  microsoft is continuing accepting feedback on platforms and take that feedback into consideration when adding new platforms/browser to that supported matrix.  the description below and others are workarounds that may result in other issues.</p> <p>since the immediate release of safari (beta) on windows, people are noticing (and asking) about silverlight support.</p> <p>well, you may notice that you'll see the default install image for silverlight when using safari for windows and browsing to a silverlight application.  yes, even if you have silverlight installed.</p> <p><em>why is this tim?</em> you ask.  well simple.  safari on windows is a new browser.  the same experience would happen if i released my superfunk 1.0 browser...silverlight just doesn't know about the type of browser it is.  (let's save the arguments of how browser detection is happening for another day.).</p> <p>well, if you need to get it to work, you'll have to dig into silverlight.js and make some modifications.  for me, the simple modification was in my own createSilverlight function.  i changed the properties parameter to use version: "0.8" (note: safari on windows for me was registering that silverlight version 0.8.5.0 was installed, so the properties setting for "0.9" was showing that i needed an update).  once i made that change i no longer got the install image, but instead a blank screen.  huh.  well, it turns out that safari on windows acts a bit like opera on windows (which is on the roadmap and the silverlight team is working on it).  if you resize your browser you should now see the silverlight plugin render fine (as mine did).</p> <p>yeah, it's weird, but it is beta...and safari was just released today...give 'em all a break would ya ;-).</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:c1b3495d-8616-4867-9fc7-3e0bf9c937a6" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
