---
title: "silverlight: breaking changes"
slug: "14147"
pubDate: 2007-07-19T10:47:52.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:06.000Z
categories:
  - "silverlight"
  - "xaml"
  - "downloader"
  - "silverlight.js"
  - "breaking changes"
draft: false
---

<p>i know i <a href="http://timheuer.com/blog/archive/2007/07/14/14141.aspx">posted earlier</a> with a pointer to the <a href="http://folders.live.com/self.aspx/kocj18oD+kQ/Silverlight/Silverlight%201.0%20SDK%20RC%20Preview.zip">preview sdk</a> over in <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/tims">sneathville</a>, but i walked through the docs this morning and just wanted to re-iterate the need to look at the breaking changes document included in the <a href="http://folders.live.com/self.aspx/kocj18oD+kQ/Silverlight/Silverlight%201.0%20SDK%20RC%20Preview.zip">preview sdk</a>.  why? because when i look at the numerous samples i see that some are likely to be affected.  wouldn't you want your sample to run when the release candidate is put in the wild?  i would.</p> <p>breaking changes...ugh...they suck.  but bear in mind this is beta and we knew there could be some.  in looking through the <a href="http://folders.live.com/self.aspx/kocj18oD+kQ/Silverlight/Silverlight%201.0%20SDK%20RC%20Preview.zip">docs</a>, i wanted to highlight some that i felt were more common.  the <a href="http://folders.live.com/self.aspx/kocj18oD+kQ/Silverlight/Silverlight%201.0%20SDK%20RC%20Preview.zip">docs</a> do a good job of discussing the change, and showing before/after code.</p> <p>anyhow, here's my list:</p> <p><u><strong>removing 'javascript:' in event handlers</strong></u></p> <p>note this applies to if you are coding your even handlers in your xaml like this:</p> <blockquote><pre class="csharpcode"><span class="kwrd">&lt;</span><span class="html">Canvas</span> <span class="attr">x:Name</span><span class="kwrd">="myButton"</span> <span class="attr">MouseLeftButtonUp</span><span class="kwrd">="javascript:foo"</span> <span class="kwrd">/&gt;</span></pre></blockquote>
<p>you'd want to change that not to include the javascript: prefixer.  personally, i'm of the belief you shouldn't embed your event handlers in your xaml necessarily.  i heard (and saw) a very good discussions on reasons why it might not be a good idea especially if you have designers generating xaml for you.  each generation of xaml from a tool like Expression Design won't 'merge' event handler wire-ups.  what this means is that if you have xaml with event handlers like this and your designer checks in a new xaml file, your app might break because they are using a design tool that may not have functions to enable event handler wire-up in xaml.  i'm babbling here, but note the change if you are.</p>
<p><strong><u>removing "Sys."</u></strong></p>
<p>probably going to affect everyone.  instead of Sys.Silverlight.foofunction() you'll need to remove the Sys. prefixer here.  quite simply, the namespace "Sys." was removed in the RC.</p>
<p><strong><u>using the downloader object</u></strong></p>
<p>one of my favorite little objects in silverlight.  in the beta bits, there was a third param in the creation that enabled you to choose whether the downloader would perform async or not.  that param is now removed...all downloads are async.  the sdk doc describes a method you can do to trick out the beta bits, but note that the third param is no longer there.</p>
<blockquote><pre class="csharpcode">downloader.open(<span class="str">"get"</span>, file, <span class="kwrd">true</span>) 
<span class="rem">//becomes </span>
downloader.open(<span class="str">"get"</span>, file)</pre></blockquote>
<p><strong><u>visibility:hidden is now visibility:collapsed</u></strong></p>
<p>um, it couldn't be explained any simpler.  hidden and collapsed meant the same thing, so we picked one and kept it consistent...hidden is no longer...use collapsed.</p>
<p><strong><u>elements in Resources node must be named</u></strong></p>
<p>good practice anyway that should have been followed, but if you are creating resource storyboards, etc. then you need to name them using the x:Name attribute.  this applies to anything in &lt;Canvas.Resources&gt;</p>
<p><strong><u>AddEventListener returns a token for RemoveEventListener</u></strong></p>
<p>basically if you were using removeEventListener before, you'd specify the object and the event handler function.  now, you have to pass a pointer to the token.  so when you add an event listener, you'll get a token as an object return.  you'll then use *that* in the remove command instead of the function name.  something like this:</p>
<blockquote><pre class="csharpcode"><span class="kwrd">var</span> enterToken = myObj.addEventListener(“MouseEnter”, myEnterHandler);
myObj.removeEventListener(“MouseEnter”, enterToken);</pre></blockquote>
<p><strong><u>version property in plug-in creation is obsolete</u></strong></p>
<p>instead, use isVersionSupported instead.  this is what the new silverlight.js file looks for (note: the new silverlight.js file is also located in the <a href="http://folders.live.com/self.aspx/kocj18oD+kQ/Silverlight/Silverlight%201.0%20SDK%20RC%20Preview.zip">preview SDK</a>).</p>
<p>so there are my key highlights.  there are more, and you really should download the preview sdk and read the docs.  prepare yourself.  prepare your samples (myself included, i need to find the time to go back, but i'd imagine your samples are much more important).  get ready for RC baby!</p>
<div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="scid:0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:d1cab07e-ffdd-4e09-a667-2d6d2725767e" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
