---
title: "oscon: day 1 - who decides what open source means"
slug: "14157"
pubDate: 2007-07-25T12:11:19.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:06.000Z
categories:
  - "oscon"
  - "oscon2007"
  - "oscon07"
  - "open source"
  - "osi"
  - "osd"
  - "foss"
draft: false
---

<p>well the next session block had some to choose from.  i decided one of these was going to be my choice:</p>  <ul>   <ul>     <li><a href="http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2007/view/e_sess/13730">who gets to decide what open source means</a></li>      <li><a href="http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2007/view/e_sess/12674">open design, not by committee</a></li>      <li><a href="http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2007/view/e_sess/14730">cross platform .net with mono</a></li>      <li><a href="http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2007/view/e_sess/12383">open source voting</a></li>   </ul> </ul>  <p>i saw the .net/mono one was in the product/services track, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but usually means that it has a product twist on it.  frank w/novell is presenting on it, and maybe i'll try to poke in.</p>  <p>ultimately i chose to go with the 'who gets to decide...' one as i look at the panel.  i've met brian behlendorf before and wanted to see what the panel had to say about this topic.</p>  <p>in 1998 when open source was coined as a term, free software already existed.  the term 'free software' caused confusion (free as in no $ or free as in no liberty).  this movement helped coined the open source term.</p>  <p>"now sun is pretty much a free and open source licensing company" -- hmm...pretty sweeping statement.</p>  <p>who is the <a href="http://opensource.org">OSI</a>?  an open process and community discussing licensing issues.   when a new license is proposed, they start a conversation about it.  the board/committee meets and decides -- open process with the submitter on ensuring <a href="http://opensource.org/docs/osd">OSD</a> compliance, etc.</p>  <p>current discussion on gplv3 (SugarCRM supporting this license).  chris dibona has some issue with gplv3, not because of some details, but ensuring that something called open source complies with the <a href="http://opensource.org/docs/osd">open source definition</a>.</p>  <p>ross mayfield has a company (social text) who used a mozilla license with some modified clauses...caused some issues with some in the community, a result of a passionate community.  "users are becoming developers" in certain ways...interesting thought.  ross refers to the blog post about '<a href="http://opensource.org/node/163">will the real open source crm please stand up</a>' and how socialtext stopped calling themselves open source until their process was vetted through the community.  social text has the common public attribution license == mozilla+.  michael just announced that this attribution license submitted by social text (CPAL) is approved and the ink is drying as we speak.</p>  <p>micheal suggests we look at the history page of the definition of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source">open source on wikipedia</a>.  he says "terrifying."</p>  <p>in the definition of open source is it about the OSI maintaining its reputation?  </p>  <p>this is some interesting discussion but perhaps way too philisophical for this time of day or my technical dweeb mind ;-).  end of panel -- do we have an idea of who gets to decide?  i'm still confused.</p>  <p>i'm looking forward to bill hilf's discussion during tomorrow morning's general session...stay tuned.</p>  <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="scid:0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:a6218891-60f3-4306-9e09-4a15fdcfa02b" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
