---
title: "oscon: day 2 - windmill - automated ui tests for ajax apps"
slug: "14164"
pubDate: 2007-07-26T11:14:42.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:20:07.000Z
categories:
  - "ajax"
  - "oscon"
  - "oscon2007"
  - "oscon07"
  - "windmill"
  - "project windmill"
  - "osaf"
  - "selenium"
  - "ui testing"
draft: false
---

<p>what is <a href="http://windmill.osafoundation.org/">windmill</a>?  it is described as:</p>  <blockquote>   <p>Project Windmill was created with the intention of reaching 100% automated testing of heavy Ajax web applications after trying desperately to make existing solutions work.</p> </blockquote>  <p>i'm eager to listen to this one.  i've used <a href="http://www.openqa.org/selenium/">selenium</a> as a web testing UI platform in the past and like a lot of what it offers...i'm expecting to see what windmill provides better/different and if it is more simplistic...here we go.</p>  <p>the guys behind this are mikeal rogers and adam christian of the cosmos web project(?) which is now the chandler server project.</p>  <p>so adam first is showing the demonstration of windmill testing the calendar feature of the chandler server -- showing automated testing of ajaxy drag/drop features, etc.  he points to a window that is open, calling it the 'windmill ide' which looks like.</p>  <p>requirements for the project:</p>  <ul>   <ul>     <li>run single test on all target browsers</li>      <li>easily debug tests</li>      <li>easily fit into continuous integration</li>   </ul> </ul>  <p>why windmill?</p>  <ul>   <ul>     <li>needed to test heavy ajax application which changed dramatically</li>      <li>existing solutions (selenium) didn't fill all reqs</li>      <li>debugging/test authoring was difficult</li>      <li>CI integration was a pain</li>      <li>extending libraries wasn't easy</li>   </ul> </ul>  <p>architecture... the service is completely written in python, ide is javascript and the test authoring library is anything.</p>  <p>what can be automated?</p>  <ul>   <ul>     <li>OOTB support for: open, click, check, radio, wait, type, doubleClick, select, dragDrop</li>      <li>all controller actions support a unified 'locator' to reference UI elements supporting xpath, link, name, id, and jsid (calls a javascript function which returns an element id).</li>   </ul> </ul>  <p>the ide features:</p>  <ul>   <ul>     <li>multi-browser test recorder</li>      <li>multiple layers of support for perf info and metrics</li>      <li>DOM explorer (much like firebug, but multibrowser)</li>      <li>javascript shell (thank you mochikit)</li>   </ul> </ul>  <p>service features:</p>  <ul>   <ul>     <li>extensible logging</li>      <li>3 run modes: headless command line; shell mode; wx GUI</li>      <li>browsing launching and configuration</li>      <li>server level pre and post hooks for result parsing</li>   </ul> </ul>  <p>these guys are working diligently on end-user docs and getting information out.  they know there may be bugs, and are hoping people use it and find them -- they are quick to respond right now.</p>  <p>adam is demonstrating this in action right now...recorder looks cool, ide looks good, they did a good job here, you should check it out!</p>  <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="scid:0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:a29f6400-d07b-4f2e-a00e-07271807752e" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px"></div>
