---
title: "office devcon day 2"
slug: "1659"
pubDate: 2005-02-03T13:24:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:34.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<P>off to a much better start (IMO).&nbsp; yesterday i was able to meet some people i hadn't been able to put faces to, but have &#8220;met&#8221; online for the past year...that's been great...it is always good to network and i appreciate the opportunity to do so.</P>
<P>i decided to look at some of the non-sharepoint talks this morning...some of the things with office automation are pretty cool i have to admit.&nbsp; i like the concept of word xml (wordML) to be able to create/assemble word docs without doing office automation on the server side...office has really made the right steps moving forward in this area.</P>
<P>infopath: yeah, you can't fool me.&nbsp; it still &#8220;isn't there&#8221; yet based on how i see people <STRONG>really</STRONG> wanting to use it (as an application platform).&nbsp; for basic data input it is awesome and i'd highly recommend it...for a real world scenario (workflow, security, offline capabilities) it presents challenges if it is seen as a platform rather than a tool...i could go on, but i don't want a headache.</P>
<P>information bridge framework (ibf): why are we calling it this? smart docs v2.&nbsp; done.&nbsp; the implementation is a lot better, but conceptually it is the same for me.&nbsp; the demonstrations that they are showing are definitely cool...i just haven't been exposed to a scenario where i'd implement it over other solutions.</P>
<P><a title="SharePoint" href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/sharepoint" target="_blank">sharepoint</a>: more of the same.&nbsp; i feel bad for the presenters who aren't able to answer the questions of &#8220;why is customizing a site so cumbersome&#8221; (really it was asked as &#8220;this sucks, are you kidding me that we have to hack xml files to customize a site&#8221;) and &#8220;why does frontpage screw things up&#8221;, etc. -- the important thing to note is that they are here to help us learn, not give answers to why decisions were made...let's move forward with what we have.</P>
<P>workshare (<A href="http://www.workshare.com">www.workshare.com</A>): um. cool. very cool.&nbsp; did i mention this is cool.&nbsp; these guys have a very well thought out application for document integrity and compliance (and some workflow).&nbsp; by far one of the more innovative 3rd party products i've seen in the business solutions area in quite a long time...good job guys.</P>
<P>live communications server: forgive me, i kinda don't get it.&nbsp; i already have msn messenger, etc.&nbsp; okay, i guess it could be more secure from a corporate standpoint, but oh well.&nbsp; and can we get a consolidated client instead of windows messenger, msn messenger, windows messenger for lcs, and then another (codename: istanbul)?&nbsp; seriously, start talking to each other -- the target audiences aren't that different that you have to target specifically for the &#8220;home user&#8221; for msn messenger -- and btw, even at home i turn off all the msn crap -- i want an IM client, not a friggin newspaper.&nbsp; feature request: can i set my own &#8220;status&#8221; -- why not?</P>
<P>k2 workflow (<A href="http://www.k2workflow.com">www.k2workflow.com</A>): um, another cool product.&nbsp; i've worked with this product for about a year now...awesome human workflow -- great tool...if you need workflow, you need k2.</P>
<P>more later...</P>
