---
title: "hey, where's my presence in wss w/firefox?"
slug: "1680"
pubDate: 2005-02-18T12:50:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:34.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<P>i got a question from robertk just a while ago asking where the presence info was when viewing <A title=SharePoint href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/sharepoint" target=_blank>sharepoint</A> with firefox.</P>
<P><EM>what?! you can view <A title=SharePoint href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/sharepoint" target=_blank>sharepoint</A> with firefox?!</EM> calm down, yes you can.</P>
<P>basically the presence indicator is shown using a javascript function in ows.js (IMNRC) and is only rendered for the appropriate browsers (look at owsbrows.js)..basically those that are browseris.ie55up. -- so essentially wss thinks that firefox is netscape 5 because of the mozilla version it checks for.  </P>
<P>ideally the owsbrows.js should be written to check for functionality rather than versions -- maybe render the browseris from the server based on using the .net framework libraries that would be able to determine the &#8220;abilities&#8221; better.</P>
<P>so if you want it to work, you'll have to jack with ows.js and some other areas as well -- i started looking real quick, but there are other places where it doesn't work and renders the non_ie.js file as well which causes other issues.</P>
<P><EM>wait a minute, get back to getting firefox and <A title=SharePoint href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/sharepoint" target=_blank>sharepoint</A> working...</EM></P>
<P>okay, so it works...most of it.  do you get the cool dhtml menu options? no.  but it renders and you can modify web parts, etc...just different look...try it and you'll see the changes: some here: <A href="http://timheuer.com/images/wssffx1.jpg">http://timheuer.com/images/wssffx1.jpg</A> </P>
<P>so basically it works...the cool thing is that if you use the firefox web developer toolbar add-in, you can &#8220;turn on&#8220; css tags and see all those hidden wss class names you want to change...without installing a javascript file or referring to the style guide.</P>
<P> </P>
