---
title: "what a good sharepoint subject matter expert ought to know..."
slug: "1691"
pubDate: 2005-02-24T08:51:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:34.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<P>inspired by <A href="http://www.hanselman.com/blog/WhatGreatNETDevelopersOughtToKnowMoreNETInterviewQuestions.aspx">scott hanselmen's post about What Great .NET Developers Ought to Know</A>, as well as the rush of interviews i've been conducting lately to fill <A title=SharePoint href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/sharepoint" target=_blank>sharepoint</A> positions, i started compiling a list of questions for what a sharepoint <STRIKE>consultant</STRIKE> developer/architect (or fill in your own title) ought to know...here it is...</P>
<P>please comment on more questions -- this was my 30 second list that i'll be adding to.</P>
<P>What SharePoint consultants Ought to Know</P>
<P><EM>Everyone who can spell SharePoint</EM></P><EM></EM><EM>
<UL>
<LI></EM>what is SharePoint? 
<LI>what is the difference between SharePoint Portal Server and Windows SharePoint Services? 
<LI>what is a document library? 
<LI>what is a meeting workspace? 
<LI>what is a document workspace? 
<LI>what is a web part?</LI></UL>
<P><EM>Mid-level SharePoint Consultant</EM></P>
<UL>
<LI>what is the difference between a document library and a form library? 
<LI>what is a web part zone? 
<LI>how is security managed in SharePoint? 
<LI>how are web parts developed? 
<LI>what is a site definition? 
<LI>what is a template? 
<LI>how do you install web parts? 
<LI>what is the difference between a site and a web? 
<LI>what are the differences between web part page gallery, site gallery, virtual server gallery and online gallery? 
<LI>what is the GAC? 
<LI>what is a DWP? 
<LI>what is CAML? 
<LI>what are themes? 
<LI>what is presence? 
<LI>can web parts be connected? if so, how? 
<LI>what is a personal view and what is a shared view? 
<LI>what is an STP file? 
<LI>what is an FWP file? 
<LI>can you upload MP3's to SharePoint? 
<LI>how does SharePoint support MS Outlook integration? 
<LI>how can you extend lists in SharePoint? 
<LI>explain the document versioning in SharePoint document libraries</LI></UL>
<P><EM>Senior SharePoint Consultant</EM></P>
<UL>
<LI>where are web part resources contained? 
<LI>what are the different installation methods for deploying web parts? and what are the pros/cons? 
<LI>what is a ghosted/unghosted page? 
<LI>how is site data stored? 
<LI>where is metadata for a web stored? 
<LI>what is an audience and describe the use? 
<LI>what are the trust levels and what is the default trust associated with SharePoint? 
<LI>what are the two logging mechanisms for usage statistics? 
<LI>what functionality does owssup.dll provide for client side activities? 
<LI>what is the difference between a site owner and a site administrator? 
<LI>what is STSAdm and what can it be used for? 
<LI>can WSS search subsites? 
<LI>can you register alerts for users? 
<LI>are PDFs searchable?</LI></UL>
<P><EM>SharePoint Architect</EM></P>
<UL>
<LI>what is a SharePoint farm? 
<LI>describe a large deployment 
<LI>how can you synchronize custom Active Directory attributes to SharePoint? 
<LI>if it is anticipated that our organization would need to store 1 terrabyte of documents, what is the recommended configuration and storage requirement? 
<LI>describe the implementation of SharePoint and Project Server 
<LI>what are the BKMs for workflow and SharePoint? 
<LI>explain how you would deploy SharePoint on an extranet 
<LI>what is the BKM for maximum number of virtual servers configured for SharePoint on a single box? 
<LI>what are the migration strategies for moving sites around? 
<LI>what are the archiving strategies? 
<LI>describe the search strategies 
<LI>can you implement forms-based authentication with SharePoint? 
<LI>describe how single sign-on works</LI></UL>
