---
title: "TechEd Day 0"
slug: "1805"
pubDate: 2005-06-06T17:20:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:37.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<P><FONT size=2>I arrived at TechEd one day early &#8211; coming from the west coast this was necessary or I would have missed the first day! (In case you didn&#8217;t know, TechEd is in Orlando, FL this year).</FONT></P>
<P></P>
<P><FONT size=2>My flight sucked.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>Not because of the airline, but because the fact that someone sitting around me smelled pretty bad &#8211; normally I don&#8217;t care&#8230;but multiply &#8220;normally&#8221; by 5 hours.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>We also flew into a lightening/thunderstorm in Orlando, so were placed in what seemed to be a figure 8 holding pattern for an additional 40 minutes.</FONT></P>
<P></P>
<P><FONT size=2>I finally got there and met up with some team members and we went to the hotel.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>We are staying at the Ritz Carlton.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>Yeah, I know, woe is me.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>In all seriousness&#8230;I don&#8217;t like these types of places.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>When we arrived&#8230;there was a bellmen about 300 yards even before the bellmen.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>Then about an army of 8 blue-jacketed guys trying to take our carry-on bags were there to greet us as well.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>This was followed by a gentlemen opening the first door, a different gentlemen opening a second door, and then a concierge to greet us there.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>Then after check-in the concierge escorted me to the elevator (which was around the corner) to show me where my room was.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>WAY TOO MUCH!<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>Now before you get the &#8220;Microsoft has too much money to spend&#8221; &#8211; we are staying at the Ritz after a smokin&#8217; deal was arranged.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>Truth be told, I&#8217;d rather be closer to the convention center.</FONT></P>
<P></P>
<P><FONT size=2>At any rate, the first day was an <A href="http://www.ineta.org">INETA </A>event as well as a <A href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/isv/rd/">MS Regional Director </A>event.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>I had some invited guests at both of these.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>Apparently both were great events and a lot of insight was gained at each.</FONT></P>
<P></P>
<P><FONT size=2>Afterwards I spent some time with PeteM and <A href="http://weblogs.asp.net/palermo4">Michael Palermo</A> to hear about their days and chat about ways we can better excite the developer community.<SPAN>&nbsp; </SPAN>It is good to hang out with solid leaders and share ideas&#8230;part of this job I really like.</FONT></P>
<P></P>
<P><FONT size=2>Off to bed&#8230;for tomorrow.</FONT></P>
