---
title: "feedreader update"
slug: "286"
pubDate: 2003-12-01T23:11:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:28.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>okay, well here's the real deal.</p>
<p>i am currently working on several issues and am trying not to release a version that may be riddled with issues (even if it is free!).</p>
<p>one item that recently came up was the use of the per user cache if the user was anonymous (thus no user would be there).  i actually had plans to remove the global cache all together and use only a per user cache...this would allow for greatest flexibility and user customization...i'm debating the direction i want to go here now.</p>
<p>as for the numerous requests about “how can i remove the 'provided by...' information” -- all i have to say is shame on you ;-) for wanting to take that away!  well, the good news is that i have caved and removed the embedded 'provided by' statement from the footer line.  this is now replaced with a “last updated: “ label which indicates the last time the cache was refreshed with the data.</p>
<p>as a reminder, this is what is planned (not always what turns out) for the next release:</p>
<ul>
<li>enabling proxy servers with per-user authentication (completed)</li>
<li>enabling users to specify their own formatting through XSL only</li>
<li>enhancing caching model for performance (current issue as described above)</li>
<li>enabling expand/collapse of feeds if the actual feed is to be shown</li>
<li>enhanced installer for better installation options and more user friendly (completed)</li></ul>
<p>some of these are taking more time through my testing due to some issues.</p>
<p>keep posted here for updates...email me offline for more questions or if you absolutely must have a new version because of some of the proxy server issues.</p>
