---
title: "TechNet and MSDN: SQL 2005 and ASP.NET 2"
slug: "3323"
pubDate: 2005-07-27T14:07:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:38.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<B>September 1: Las Vegas location: Regal Green Valley Ranch 10, registration links:<BR> <A href="http://shrinkster.com/700" target=_blank>Las Vegas September 1 TechNet</A> <BR><A href="http://msevents.microsoft.com/cui/EventDetail.aspx?culture=en-US&EventID=1032277582" target=_blank>Las Vegas September 1 MSDN</A><BR><BR>August 30: Phoenix location: Hilton Scottsdale Resort and Villas, registration links: <BR><A href="http://shrinkster.com/701" target=_blank>Phoenix August 30 TechNet</A> <BR><A href="http://shrinkster.com/703" target=_blank>Phoenix August 30 MSDN</A><BR></B><BR><U><FONT face=Arial>Rock Solid SQL: Strengthen your SQL Servers with SQL Server 2005</FONT></U><BR><FONT face=Arial>SQL Server databases provide the foundation for your business solutions, so dont you want to build the finest groundwork possible? The new SQL Server 2005 will enhance security, reliability, and performance to give you a solid, dependable base. Think about your current SQL system: Can you still access your database if the server goes down? How fast can you failover? What is your Maintenance Plan? Who is Locking and who is Blocking? In this session, well upgrade an existing SQL Server database to SQL Server 2005 and show you how to maintain a more secure, reliable database solution for your business.<BR>We will look at: </FONT>
<LI>How to exploit the new security features to tighten controls on your existing systems. 
<LI><FONT face=Arial>How the new Database Mirroring technology can provide faster, automatic failover. </FONT>
<LI>How simple and easy it is to configure automatic maintenance plans and alerts. 
<LI><FONT face=Arial>How the new Dynamic Management Views provide greater insight into your database performance with simple, yet powerful reports. </FONT>
<LI>How to quickly tune the database with the Database Tuning Advisor. 
<LI><FONT face=Arial>How you can reduce locking contention with new optimistic concurrency controls. </FONT>
<LI>How to enhance performance and reliability by partitioning tables on the disk. <BR><BR><U>Rule the Web with ASP.NET 2.0 </U><BR>ASP.NET is a powerful framework for building dynamic, high performance, data-driven Web applications. ASP.NET 2.0 improves on its predecessor by helping you become more productive, reducing the amount of code you need to write, making your Web sites easier to manage, and improving your Web site's scalability, reliability, and performance. In this three-part tour-de-force, youll explore valuable aspects of ASP.NET 2.0 from user interfaces to data access to performance that will help you create better Web applications with less hassle than ever before. Developing Compelling User Interfaces with Ease in ASP.NET 2.0ASP.NET 2.0 takes Web UIs to a whole new level with a fresh set of rich controls and IDE features. In this session, youll learn how to:<BR>
<LI>Establish common page layouts and content across your site with Master Pages 
<LI>Skin your site with Themes 
<LI>Manage the navigation of your site through site maps and navigation controls Data Access with ADO.NET 2.0 and ASP.NET 2.0ADO.NET 2.0 drastically lessens the effort required to access data from your ASP.NET 2.0 Web application, freeing you to focus on what matters most implementing your business logic and introduces new objects, controls and techniques. This session will illustrate how to: 
<LI>Work with declarative data sources 
<LI>Utilize data binding 
<LI>Pass parameters to data sources without code 
<LI>Bind to hierarchical data 
<LI>Bind to business objects 
<LI>Use typed DataSets and TableAdapters Building High Performance Applications with ASP.NET 2.0In this session, well explore the many improvements in ASP.NET 2.0 that will help you get maximum performance from your web sites, including: 
<LI>Configuring page output caching 
<LI>Caching a data source 
<LI>SQL cache invalidation with SQL Server 2000 and SQL Server 2005 
<LI>Using post cache substitution 
<LI>Using client callbacks from your ASP.NET page 
<LI>Deployment techniques to optimize performance</LI>
