---
title: "Using FeedReader"
slug: "389"
pubDate: 2004-02-29T22:38:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:30.000Z
description: "Information and FAQ on FeedReader."
categories: []
draft: false
---


		<p>
				<strong>Q: Why do I get <em>“Request for the permission of type System.Security.Permission.FileIOPermission“</em>?<br />Q: I am getting an error immediately after I add your web part, what's the problem?<br />Q: It says your web part is not marked as safe? What does that mean?<br />Q: I ran your install .msi file but the web part does not show up in the Virual Gallery, what happened?</strong>
				<br />A: Per the readme file, there are two methods of installing FeedReader.  The first method is to change the trust level for the portal from WSS_Minimal (which is out of the box configuration) to Full.  The second (and recommended) method is to ensure the web part is installed into the GAC.  This is accomplished using:</p>
		<p>
		</p>
		<blockquote>
				<em>stsadm.exe -o addwppack -filename <path file="" cab="" feedreader="" to="">-globalinstall -force</path></em>
		</blockquote>
		<p>
		</p>
		<p>You'll notice the “-globalinstall” parameter which installs FeedReader to the GAC for you.  This should solve the problem described above.</p>
		<p>The other option instead of the “-globalinstall“ option (which puts the Web Part in the Global Assembly Cache) is to edit the web.config of the SharePoint server.  You will notice in the web.config a section that indicates a trust level.  By default this will most likely be something like “WSS_Minimal“ unless it has been changed.  You can change this to “Full“ and FeedReader should work.</p>
		<p>
				<strong>Q: My company uses a proxy server which requires user authentication, does FeedReader work?</strong>
				<br />A: We are trying to do our best to accommodate all environments, and proxy servers are one that are a pain point for us right now.  Because the server is actually making the request for the RSS feed information, we are challenged with making sure all the credentials are appropriately passed on through FeedReader.  Updates on this issue will be continually posted here.</p>
		<p>References: <a href="http://msmvps.com/cgross/archive/2004/06/26/9045.aspx">http://msmvps.com/cgross/archive/2004/06/26/9045.aspx</a></p>

