---
title: "i'm increasing becoming less of a dell supporter"
slug: "413"
pubDate: 2004-03-12T08:39:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:30.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<P>i have yet to have a positive experience with dell customer support recently.&nbsp; last year i bought a new laptop and had a question about my screen resolution only having certain options (at the time i thought i had the upgraded video adapter).&nbsp; after several email exchanges with dell support (remember, i just had a question), the &#8220;resolution&#8221; (all i was looking for was an answer) was &#8220;we are sorry you are having the problem&#8221; [what problem?] &#8220;please re-install your operating system&#8221; -- are you kidding me?&nbsp; that was the &#8220;solution&#8221; to my question?</P>
<P>more recently, i decided i was going to experiment with smart cards.&nbsp; my inspiron 8600 did not come with an internal smart card reader, but it does have available &#8220;space&#8221; underneath the type II slot that does exist.&nbsp; after a little research, i found out that the d600 laptopt does have a smart card reader and used the same config as the 8600.&nbsp; great, i'll call dell and order the part.&nbsp; i couldn't find it on the web site, and emailing customer care resulted in a message: &#8220;yes it is available for your system, please call dell spear and buy the card...&#8221; [yes this is how it was typed...i thought for a moment what &#8220;spear&#8221; was until i realized it was &#8220;spare&#8221; as in spare parts department].&nbsp; the following has been the last 45 minutes...</P>
<P>Dell: Thank you for calling Dell<BR>Me: Hi, i would like to order a spare part for my inspiron 8600 laptop<BR>Dell: What is your express service tag?<BR>Me (thinking): <EM>didn't i just enter that into the system, a lot of good that did</EM><BR>Me: here it is XXXXXXXXXXX<BR>Dell: okay, mr. heuer (butchers name of course, but that is no different than anyone else), how can i help you<BR>Me (thinking): <EM>evidently you didn't listen previously</EM><BR>Me: I'd like to order the smart card reader for my 8600<BR>Dell: I am not familiar with that, can you tell me please what is a smart card reader<BR>Me (thinking): <EM>oh boy, here we go</EM><BR>Me: it is a slot below my type II slot (PCMCIA slot).&nbsp; you have one on the d600 laptop<BR>Dell: Okay, do you have the SKU number?<BR>Me: Um, no.<BR>Dell: Okay, one moment</P>
<P>several minutes of delay </P>
<P>Dell: okay I have found it, i believe you are referring to the flash memory, let me get the price for you<BR>Me (thinking): <EM>i'm sorry, did i <STRONG>say</STRONG> flash?</EM><BR>Me: no, it is a smart card reader</P>
<P>[tim goes into dissertation of what a smart card reader is and gives the guy on the phone a url to show the d600 hardware and sku]</P>
<P>Dell: i'm sorry we don't have that<BR>Me: so why did customer care say you did?<BR>Dell: let me transfer you to software and peripherals<BR>Dell: okay i have (forget foreign name) on the line to help<BR>Dell2: hi tim, can i have your express service code?<BR>Me (thinking): <EM>idiots...didn't #1 give it to you?</EM></P>
<P>[tim goes through almost identical conversation with #2]</P>
<P>Dell2: let me transfer you to technical support<BR>Dell3: hi tim, can i have your express service code?<BR>Me (thinking) <EM>is it possible to reach through the phone and choke someone?</EM><BR>[tim and #3 exchange few words, but at least #3 comes back with a definitive &#8220;yes the 8600 does have the available support for it in the laptop body, but we do not sell the part for that laptop, you'll have to use a PCMCIA smart card reader adapter&#8221;<BR>Me: thanks<BR>Dell3: is there anything else...<BR>Me: (click)</P>
<P>i'm not trying to be rude about foreign people...i work with non-US contractors/microsoft staff/etc all the time and have an awesome experience.&nbsp; when you are working with someone that even may have a somewhat language barrier, it is easier in person to work through that.&nbsp; but having dell phone support being answered in another country doesn't sit well with me as a customer.&nbsp; it would not pass the mother-in-law factor (my lowest common denominator for testing).&nbsp; there is too much of a language/cultural barrier with the people answering the phone.&nbsp; it took me a long time to explain what it was (aside from the lack of training that upset me) and he still didn't understand.</P>
<P>i understand cost savings, but if it costs you a customer, is it really savings?</P>
<P>frustrated...oh, anyone know of PCMCIA smart card readers?</P>
