---
title: "best of launch 2005 - nevada"
slug: "4672"
pubDate: 2005-09-23T06:14:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:40.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<P>join us for the best of launch 2005 event</P>
<P>Best of Visual Studio&#174; 2005 Launch | 1:00pm - 5:00pm Powered by MSDN Events <A href="http://msevents.microsoft.com/cui/EventDetail.aspx?culture=en-US&amp;EventID=1032282503">Register Here</A></P>
<P>FREE ADMITTANCE </P>
<P>Attend this FREE Special Edition Launch event and learn how Visual Studio 2005 will boost your power and creativity. We'll explore the Visual Studio Team System, which significantly cuts the complexity of delivering high-performance, collaborative applications. We'll also discuss how Visual Studio 2005 makes it simple to develop and deploy smart client applications, access key features of ASP.NET 2.0, and create rich, mission-critical solutions. </P>
<P>COMPLIMENTARY SOFTWARE </P>
<P>Don't just learn about the new software. Walk away with it. Attend this event, and you'll receive a free copy of Visual Studio 2005 and SQL Server&#8482; 2005.* </P>
<P>SESSIONS INCLUDE </P>
<P>- Visual Studio 2005 - Tools and Platforms - Visual Studio 2005 - Web Development - Visual Studio 2005 - Smart Client Application Development &amp; Deployment </P>
<P>*Offer only good to registered launch event attendees. Must attend the event to receive software packages or vouchers for software redemption. Limit: one offer per person, while supplies last. The software may not be resold and is not redeemable for cash. Taxes, if any, are the sole responsibility of the recipient. </P>
<P><B>Venue:</B><BR>Henderson, NV<BR>Theatre - Regal Green Valley Ranch 10</P>
<P>&nbsp;</P>
