---
title: "i fought the law...and the law won"
slug: "7135"
pubDate: 2006-01-23T18:51:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:43.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<P>i feel like ranting.</P>
<P>today i went to court in the afternoon to fight a traffic ticket.&nbsp; i say fight, but the plan was more like to beg for some mercy on my driving record so my insurance rates wouldn't increase.&nbsp; i was willing to pay the fine.</P>
<P>so being the good citizen i am, and having utmost respect for <STRIKE>most</STRIKE> law, i dawned my suit, starched my shirt and went to the courthouse.&nbsp; my time was already chosen for me, on the courts schedule.</P>
<P>the first thing that made me mad was time.&nbsp; i showed up ON TIME.&nbsp; the judge polled the audience looking for the officer.&nbsp; he wasn't there.&nbsp; sweet.&nbsp; then the judge says, &#8220;i know he was here earlier, let's recess for 10 minutes.&#8221; WTF?! had the citizen not showed up, it would be an immediate judgement against.&nbsp; strike one against me.</P>
<P>the officer did show up and had taken copious notes of our conversation the day of my ticket (almost a year ago it happened).&nbsp; strike two against me...he remembered all the dumb things i said to try to get out of it.</P>
<P>when it came my time to speak, i pleaded with the judge to not assign points to my record.&nbsp; the judge informed me that he cannot control that -- strike three.</P>
<P>colossal waste of time for me and the courts (apologies to the taxpayers).&nbsp; i realized one thing though.&nbsp; the system worked.&nbsp; the judge showed no mercy on me based on who i was, what i was wearing or how i treated him (which was kissing arse of course).&nbsp; he decided on facts and law.&nbsp; cut and clear.&nbsp; i then realized i could have showed up in a g-string and tank top and the same outcome would have happened.</P>
<P>it was evident of those that went before me and who remained in the courtroom.&nbsp; i was the only one clean-shaven (i guess i didn't match the stereotype of who should be in a courtroom, whatever that is).&nbsp; i had somehow thought it would give me an edge...it didn't.&nbsp; and in some sadistic way, i'm glad.&nbsp; i love the law.&nbsp; my education is in law.&nbsp; law almost always equals the greater common sense.&nbsp; there is right and wrong things to do.&nbsp; i did something wrong and paid the price.</P>
<P>the price by the way, for driving in the carpool lane with only one person, was $365.&nbsp; the guy who went before me who was traveling 85 MPH in a 55 MPH zone, $200.&nbsp; that's right.&nbsp; i took a shortcut and it was more expensive than what is legally considered&nbsp;a reckless abuse of speed.&nbsp; i won't go into the details, but my use of the carpool lane (at 8:45 AM and it isn't a carpool lane anymore at 9AM -- oh and not to mention NOBODY USES IT) was only on an exit -- i wasn't driving in it the whole time.&nbsp; there is a shortcut exit to my office...well now i'm just babbling anyway.&nbsp; i went on the carpool lane when i shouldn't have.</P>
<P>seriously though...should it be more costly than 30+MPH driving?</P>
<P>damn i <STRIKE>hate</STRIKE> love the law.</P>
