---
title: "can you download me now?"
slug: "8358"
pubDate: 2006-03-08T21:05:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:44.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>i&rsquo;ve been a t-mobile customer for 9 years.&nbsp; i&rsquo;ve been a happy t-mobile customer for 9 years.</p>
<p>i just got a treo 700w phone about 2 months ago.&nbsp; i&rsquo;m now a verizon customer.&nbsp; dropped t-mobile in a heart beat.</p>
<p>why? i just completed doing an msdn webcast on my laptop, using my treo as my wireless modem.&nbsp; i had outlook running, syncing emails in the background, and livemeeting open, with over 200 participants and also chose to stream the audio via internet instead of dialing in.&nbsp; i had no hiccups, no wait times on repaints, etc. &mdash; it was as if i was on a lan line.&nbsp; the speed was amazing.</p>
<p>it didn&rsquo;t dawn on me until i was done that i just spend an hour online, doing various online activities (some background, some not), and streaming audio/video without a blink of latency.&nbsp; unreal.&nbsp; verizon really has nailed the wireless data market.&nbsp; in various areas i&rsquo;m getting 1MB speeds.&nbsp; with my t-mobile data service i&rsquo;d max out at 160KBPS&hellip;not bad for email activity, etc. &mdash; doesn&rsquo;t even hold a candle to the speeds i&rsquo;m getting with verizon.</p>
<p>do i like being forced into a handset selection (verizon is CDMA and doesn&rsquo;t use GSM/SIM cards)?&nbsp; absolutely not.&nbsp; it pisses me off actually &mdash; i think consumers should be able to have their choise independent of carriers&hellip;after all, my home carrier doesn&rsquo;t force me to use their home unit.&nbsp; regardless, i can&rsquo;t argue with the data network that verizon has put out there first.&nbsp; will the others get better?&nbsp; i&rsquo;m betting on it.&nbsp; but i&rsquo;m also betting on verizon trying to retain their share and making it even better.</p>
<p>i like the treo &mdash; it&rsquo;s a bit heavy, but in reality to the device i was previously using, isn&rsquo;t that much different in size.</p>
<p>so instead of &ldquo;can you hear me now&rdquo; &mdash; they should add the &ldquo;can you download it now&rdquo; tagline &mdash; unbelievable.&nbsp; awesome.&nbsp; convenient.</p>
