---
title: "mts06: part 5 - ie7, link, xbox"
slug: "9658"
pubDate: 2006-04-12T22:20:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:46.000Z
categories: []
draft: false
---

<p>catching up on the mts experience.  i noticed <a href="http://brian.pontarelli.com/category/mts06/" rel="tag">brian pontarelli</a> is blogging pretty real-time as well on the event (from an attendee perspective).</p>
<p><strong>ie7</strong></p>
<p>this morning we started with a session about ie7.  true to the request, <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/cwilso/" rel="tag">chris wilson</a> came with 3 slides (one of which was a title slide) and opened up for discussion.  there was some good improvements demonstrated in tabbed browsing, rss integration, streamlined ui (msft&#8217;s opinion of course), zooming, scaled printing (yeah! no right cut-offs), etc.</p>
<p>chris also articulated about ie7 security being a big focus &#8212; information bar warning of weak settings, phishing filtering, etc. &#8212; as well as isolation of execution on some controls </p>
<p>the third tenat has been around standards &#8212; ie7 is a HUGE improvement.  there really is nothing to write about here &#8212; download it and see the improvements.</p>
<p><strong>next up: luca &#8220;mini anders&#8221; bolognese</strong></p>
<p>anders hejlsberg was on holiday this week and although it was disappointing to not have him hear, it is understandable that you don&#8217;t get the distinguished engineers every time you ask them to be there :-).  luca, however, was great.  he jumped right in to demonstrating linq, dlinq and xlinq &#8212; all great stuff and got some interest from the crowd about the execution of various queries using almost a dynamic language look/feel.</p>
<p>more linq info: <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/netframework/future/linq/">linq dev center</a></p>
<p><strong>xbox extensibility</strong></p>
<p>brian keller from the xna team hosted our lunch and talked about the xna development toolkit for gaming.  this isn&#8217;t just for xbox/windows, but aids the process in developing games on multi platform areas.  what i learned was the toolkit is very expensive but with that costs, comes a lot of msft love &#8212; apparently unparalleled in the gaming industry (read: you gets lots of support &#8212; even at the code level).  what i also learned is that joe developer can&#8217;t likely get a dev kit &#8212; these are going to studios.  the reason for this is due to the gamers demanding more from their consoles/games &#8212; and the hobbyist doesn&#8217;t necessarily guarantee that same level of quality and game play.  these kits are, however, being seen in academia which may help the proliferation of game developers.</p>
<p>tags: <a href="http://technorati.com/tag/mts06" rel="tag">mts06</a></p>
