---
title: "Fulton Homes Sucks - Part 1"
slug: "fultonhomessuckpart1"
pubDate: 2004-08-11T11:55:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:32.000Z
categories: []
draft: true
---

<FONT size=2>
<P>UPDATE: Another person frustrated with Fulton: <A href="http://fultonhomesfrustration.blogspot.com/">http://fultonhomesfrustration.blogspot.com/</A><BR>UPDATE: I posted another part in the ongoing saga here: <A href="http://timheuer.com/blog/articles/FultonHomesSuckPart2.aspx">http://timheuer.com/blog/articles/FultonHomesSuckPart2.aspx</A></P>
<P>First, please forgive this long email. I've simply hit a point regarding a homebuilder experience that I felt needed to be shared with all of my friends and family as I don't want you to have the same experience. Feel free to read this now, or read when you have more time&#8230;.but please read it&#8230;and pass it along to your friends and family.</P>
<P>As some of you may know, recently Lisa and I have purchased a new home in Queen Creek and decided to go with a new build rather than an existing structure. We chose our community and home based on several items, but one being the builder reputation. If you've lived in the Phoenix area long, you may know of Fulton homes. Because of their public reputation as a builder and ties to the valley community, we felt they would be a reputable company to choose. The community obviously played a larger role in the decision, however we were initially happy to learn that the builder where we wanted to live would be Fulton Homes.</P>
<P>I am writing to you today as a part of a warning to you and an urge to become involved in every aspect of your real estate experience. Since our decision to purchase a Fulton home, we have been met with the most incredibly poor, time consuming, frustrating and unhappy experiences of our lives. Admittedly, we took a very active role in our home building process, trying to understand each stage and involve ourselves in the quality construction of our home&#8230;after all, we are paying a lot of money and plan on being there a long time. The experiences we have had with Fulton homes as a builder have been nothing short of disasterous. In almost every aspect, we have been met with pushback, excuses, passing the buck, incompetency, poor quality, poor management, poor customer service, delays&#8230;you name it&#8230;everything that could probably go wrong with a construction of a home, probably did. </P>
<P>An in case you think we're just a complaining, nagging, perfectionist people that are demanding too much, so what ;-) -- in all seriousness, we are not the only ones. Our community (Cortina in Queen Creek) neighbors have suffered similar, and in some cases worse, experiences as we have. As an example, at one neighbor's <B>final</B> walk-through, the Superintendent walked into the house and stated "wow this is a nice house, I haven't been in this one yet." That's right, to their amazement, the person ultimately responsible for the oversight of their home, never set a foot on their lot. Granted, there are assistants, delegation, etc. but this was a general trend&#8230;people put in responsible roles were not following through and not being held accountable. The same neighbor (as his wife stood at their closing in tears) sat at their final walk-through looking at a completely cracked ceiling and walls already separating&#8230;all due to lack of supervision during the process for things that could have been fixed prior. At one point during our inspections, our superintendent (the same one at the time), looked me square in the eyes telling me an item was repaired and assured me it was complete (a hole being repaired). As we walked over to the location of the <B>still open hole</B>, I could do nothing but stare at him when his response was "well, they told me it was fixed." I invite you to come to my community, and ask every neighbor about their experience with Fulton. I assure you that a majority percentage will have the same feeling as I do. There are much more details around our issues, which if you'd like to hear them, give me a call.</P>
<P>These are just some issues. We can honestly say that we have not experienced the "Your Proud to Own. We're Proud to Build" motto that Fulton adopts. We spent even more money during the construction process for our own inspectors to supervise the work of the incompetent superintendent and area managers who were not doing their jobs (and lest you think I'm just complaining here as well, we've kept a paper trail of all issues raised that were allegedly resolved that never were, etc&#8230;basically we have documented incompetency on behalf of the Fulton construction team).</P>
<P>Even 3 months after we have closed on our house (by the way, we closed on our home when it was not yet complete because Fulton placed us in the wonderful position of running into an interest rate expiration), we are still facing pushback from Fulton. Certainly not the "we're proud to build" mentality. We love the floorplan of our home, and in some respect feel we have a better constructed house than people who weren't as involved in the process and their problems are just hiding behind walls now, waiting to surface. But we do feel the process and continue experience with Fulton is not a pleasant one. </P>
<P>We've later learned that since Doug Fulton (Ira Fulton's son) took over the company, the rumor on the street is that quality in general has gone downhill (I have no statistics to back this up, this is pure conjecture) as Doug is more of a businessman concerned about bottom-line and less concerned about customer care and concerns. Oh yeah, guess who is on the board for our HOA&#8230;Doug Fulton, Ira Fulton, Norman N., Steve W. (protecting those two individuals privacy). Hey guess who the officers are of Fulton Corporation: Doug Fulton, Ira Fulton, Norman N., Steve W. Now I admit, this is not uncommon to have the owners of the community be the HOA board until the community is filled up. But guess how many of them show up for HOA meetings&#8230;c'mon guess&#8230;that's right: 0. Guess what the biggest topic at the HOA meetings has been: Fulton homes suck.</P>
<P>I understand that every builder may not have it's own crews for construction like Shea homes or other larger, national builders do. But at the end of the day, someone's name is on the house (literally, those jerks put Fulton Homes on our address plate and because of Gestapo HOA rules, we can't take it down), and they are ultimately responsible for the supervision of all trade workers and overall construction of the homes. In our experience, this is where Fulton homes really sucks&#8230;and I mean really sucks bad.</P>
<P>With all that said, not everyone within our experience has been this way. Our sales representative (Leah Hight) was fantastic and she was on our side every step of the way, even initiating an issue with the registrar's of contractors about several issues (luckily they did not have to get involved). We would certainly buy a home from her again, but unfortunately for her, she'd have to switch companies.</P>
<P>So, again, please forgive me for this long email. I simply felt the need to express my distaste for this process. It is said that a happy customer will tell 3-5 people about their experience, but a dissatisfied customer will tell 10 people. I'm here telling every person I know&#8230;and I encourage you to pass this along if you feel appropriate.</P>
<P>Thanks for your time.&nbsp; Be sure to read <A href="http://timheuer.com/blog/articles/FultonHomesSuckPart2.aspx">part 2</A></P>
<P>Read others frustrations: <A href="http://fultonhomesfrustration.blogspot.com/">http://fultonhomesfrustration.blogspot.com/</A></P></FONT>
