---
title: "Fulton Homes Sucks - Part 2"
slug: "fultonhomessuckpart2"
pubDate: 2006-03-10T19:15:00.000Z
lastModified: 2019-10-23T04:19:44.000Z
categories: []
draft: true
---

<P> if you haven&#8217;t read previously my issues with my <A href="http://www.fultonhomes.com/">homebuilder</A>, <A href="http://timheuer.com/blog/articles/1153.aspx">take a look first</A>.  this is a part 2 of the ongoing saga.</P>
<P>let me make this clear: my family and i LOVE our neighborhood and neighbors and have really done well making our house a home.  we&#8217;ve overcome some of the building challenges over the past 2 years, except two of them.</P>
<P>it is about these two that i&#8217;m conceding defeat with fulton homes.  it has been 2 years since we moved in and had the brunt of our problems with the builder.  i&#8217;ll say again, the problem is with the builder.  do i think i was a part of a con on a poor house? no.  our salesperson (leah) was the best and on our side the entire time. </P>
<P>my problem is with the builder and their (lack of) customer service.</P>
<P><STRONG>customer satisfaction is worthless, loyalty is everything</STRONG><BR>i once went to a presentation by <A href="http://www.gitomer.com/">gitomer</A> and his message hit me loud and clear.  both professionally and personally.  it was a message about customer service.  it went beyond the &#8220;customer is always right&#8221; mentality.  he discussed what it meant to have a loyal customer.  and that if you had a satisfied customer, you failed and they are worthless.  he <A href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/188516730X/sr=8-2/qid=1142050007/ref=pd_bbs_2/104-2831634-7183930?%5Fencoding=UTF8">wrote a book on it</A> so i won&#8217;t reiterate everything, but the title of the book is the message: customer satisfaction is worthless, loyalty is everything.  we&#8217;ve all hear the saying about an unhappy customer will tell 10x as many people about their negative experience as would a satisfied customer.  gitmer explains, if you build a loyal customer, the opposite will true&#8230;people will also go out of their way to tell you about a positive experience.</P>
<P>i&#8217;ve taken this philosophy in my life, personally and professionally.  i&#8217;ve tried to articulate that in my business dealings, but more importantly it has given me fine tuning on recognizing customer service versus customer patrionizing.  i once worked at pacificare health systems and outside the corporate offices in socal, a woman with a negative experience was there, EVERYDAY, with a sign that was written as a play on words: Pacifi-don&#8217;t Care.  to this day i have no idea what her beef with the company was, but it was beside the point.  she was there EVERYDAY (i&#8217;m not exaggerating &#8212; i worked there for a year and she didn&#8217;t miss a work day).  now one would question that determiniation if nothing was getting done, but she was determined.  when i started having the negative experiences with fulton, i decided to employ that same philosophy (on a different scale) and wanted to share my story with others to warn them about the lack of customer service they&#8217;d receive once the housing deal was closed&#8230;thus fultonsucks.com was born with just a simple message, this of which is part 2.</P>
<P>fulton has decided that i&#8217;m a satisfied customer (which i&#8217;m not even, so problem #1 for them &#8212; i&#8217;m worse &#8212; i&#8217;m going out of my way to tell everyone about them), and they moved on.  i can&#8217;t tell you the impact i&#8217;ve had on their sales, but i can tell you the traffic on my article is intriguing.  the fact that i&#8217;m showing up on more searches about fulton than their company is intriguing.  the fact that people meet me and hear my story and say &#8220;oh, you&#8217;re the fulton sucks guy&#8221; is intriguing.  have i had any impact?  who knows.  i think on some level, awareness is what i&#8217;ve brought.</P>
<P>now, this brings me to the incompetency stage of this part 2, <A href="mailto:jeffd@fultonhomes.com">jeff donnell</A> and the customer service management at fulton.  i&#8217;ll be clear that i think the field service guys have been pretty responsive, but also believe they have tied hands, no empowerment and in fact, a mandate to make sure they defer costs and try as hard as they can NOT to have to take a penny from the fulton family.  good business?  maybe fiscally, but not to grow a loyal and happy customer base. i digress&#8230;</P>
<P>when we bought our home, we went to the options center and chose various features.  one thing we were sold on (having lived in a home that had one while we were waiting to find a house) was a soft water system.  for those that don&#8217;t live in hard-water areas, disregard.  arizona is a &#8220;hard&#8221; water area (soap scum, feels like your skin is always dry when you shower, etc.).  a soft water system injects &#8220;brine&#8221; (salt mostly) into your water system to soften the water.  selling points? less soap usage (soap suds more), no hard-water stains, better feeling skin, reduction in water usage, etc. &#8212; all things we were sold on by an agency fulton picked.</P>
<P>well, when we moved in to the house we immediately knew the soft water system was not operating normally &#8212; how?  there WAS NO SOFT WATER.  within the first week we called fulton &#8212; they told us to call the service company (mistake 1: we were only there a week, they should have handled it for us).  long story shorter &#8212; within the first year we had multiple service visits (probably a total of 6 &#8212; it would have been more but we were always told to &#8216;wait until the changes have a chance to work&#8217;) and one unit head replacement (not the full unit, just one part).  anyhow, we were still completely dissatisfied.  the soft water company who installed it even sent us water tests from our city basically stating that we the city water was even harder than most &#8212; basically meaning that it was harder/impossible to soften to the benefits sold to us.  we finally called fulton and said, enough is enough and we wanted a refund.  we felt we brough the issue to their attention early enough, complied with all requests, and were still dissatissfied.  well, jeff donnell said basically (paraphrasing, but not by much &#8212; i just don&#8217;t want to claim an exact quote here) &#8216;i hear what you are saying, i&#8217;m sorry you are unsatisfied, but we aren&#8217;t going to give you a refund.&#8217;  why?  because the little tests they run on the water show it is soft.  i don&#8217;t give a rats poo if the test eye dropper turns blue when it hits a water sample.  take a shower idiot and tell me if you think we are getting anything.  look at the toilets and tell me you don&#8217;t see stains (for the record they told us they were &#8216;soft water stains&#8217; &#8212; nice.)&#8230;do a load of laundry and see there is no reduction in soap and no sudsing going on.  we had two plumbers in for other reasons (see below) that recommended we get a soft water system and were surprised we had one :-).</P>
<P>fulton does not take care of it&#8217;s customers.  the &#8220;customer care&#8221; (i should start calling them customer don&#8217;t-care) department doesn&#8217;t even strive for satisfaction &#8212; which leaves loyalty out the door.  since then it has been my mission to let everyone know my dissatisfaction with the company and key people: jeff donnell (who has the ability to make it right).  remember, we&#8217;re talking about $800 here.  they spent more than that in resource hours arguing with me that they weren&#8217;t going to solve it!</P>
<P><STRONG>so, where do baby wipes come in?</STRONG>  well, i have a basement in my house.  i have a bathroom in my basement.  to get the poo to the sewer system, you need a sump pump.  we have one.  sump pumps also have an alarm on them to alert you of problems (you can probably see where this is going).  lots of our neighbors are familiar with the alarms when 4 of them had their complete basements flooded due to poor construction mistakes made by fulton superindentents.  well, a few months back, we noticed a backup in the toilet &#8212; you flushed, and the bathtub filled up.  not good.  we then realized that the sump pump hadn&#8217;t kicked on in a while (it turns on every 4 gallons of fill to eject the tank contents to the sewer system above).  we called the plumber.  he came out.  the motor was busted.  why?  baby wipes &#8212; don&#8217;t flush them.  our mistake.  we admitted it and took responsibility and paid for the repairs.  however, the pump *should* have alarmed us to a problem.  why didn&#8217;t it you ask?  (so did we)  well when the actual pump inside the tank jammed, it blew the circuit.  which just happens to be the same circuit the alarm was using.  interesting (note: even the plumber couldn&#8217;t believe it was like that and made a comment that it was moronic that the alarm wasn&#8217;t ever going to help in those situations).  when we got the new pump installed, i requested the owners manual.  in the installation instructions it reads that the alarm and pump should be installed on separate circuits.  it clearly states that.  when i called the manufacturer, they indicated if installed incorrectly the warranty would be void.  i told my buddy jeff that and he kept insisting everything was built &#8220;to code&#8221; and the manufacturer would have to cover any future issues with their warranty (he apparently didn&#8217;t get what i was saying &#8212; not surprising).  i asked him to show me the code&#8230;he said he would.  to date i have not been provided with it&#8230;because it doesn&#8217;t exist.</P>
<P>bottom line: fulton can&#8217;t take care of its customers &#8212; it doesn&#8217;t know how &#8212; or isn&#8217;t empowering people.  they just can&#8217;t.  and haven&#8217;t.  $800&#8230;.amazing (see <A href="http://www.azcentral.com/arizonarepublic/news/articles/1224fultongift24.html">owner donation history</A> &#8212; what is funny is that in our closing survey when we moved in, i wrote a note on the comments that said if ira fulton invested even 1/2% of what he donates back into customer service of his own company, he&#8217;d have a much better company &#8212; i heard NOTHING in reply).</P>
<P>ps &#8212; have i told you not to buy a fulton home?</P>
